# Part 2

| Function | Optimal runtime |
|---|---|
| insert() | O(n) |
| size() | O(1) |
| empty() | O(1) |
| erase() | O(1) |
| copy constr. | O(1) | 
| copy assignment  | O(n)|
| move constr. | O(1)|
| move assignment |O(1)|

# Part 5

Place the analysis of the recursive methods

$$FibArray-Analysis$$
**n is the number upto which we find fib elements. $T(n)$ = number of operations required to find an array with
fib elements starting from 1 or 1,1 upto n**

''''cpp

int* fibArray(int n) {
   
    if (n == 1)//1
    {
        int* arr = new int[n];//3
        int a1[] = { 1 };//3
        arr = a1;//1
        return arr;//1
        //total, 9 operations
    }
    
    else if (n == 2)//1
    {
        int* arr = new int[n];//3
        int a1[] = { 1,1 };//3
        arr = a1;//1
        return arr;//1
        //total, 9 operations
    }

    else
    {
        int* arr = new int[n];//3
        arr = fibArray(n - 1);//1+T(n-1)
        int lastIndex = n - 1;//2
        arr[lastIndex] = arr[lastIndex - 1] + arr[lastIndex - 2];//5
        return arr;//1
        //total, 12 + T(n-1)
    }
}

''''

Working:
$$T(1)=9$$
$$T(2)={9 + T(1)}={18};$$
$$T(3)= {12 + T(2)} ={ 12+9+T(1)}={12+9+9} = {30}$$
$$T(4)={12+T(3)}={12 +12 + T(2)} = {12+12+9+T(1)}={12+12+9+9}={42}$$
$$T(5)={12+T(4)}={12+12+T(3)}={12+12+12 + T(2)} = {12+12+12+9+T(1)}={12+12+12+9+9} ={ 54}$$
Thus,
$$T(n) = {12+T(n-1)}$$
We know when we reach n=2 we have 18 opertions
From above we see a pattern, 12 repeats n-2 times till we reach 18 i.e., T(n-2)
thus,
$$T(n) = {12(n-2)+T(2)}$$
$$T(n) ={ 12n-24+18}$$
$$T(n)={12n-6}$$
Therefore, for fibArray:
$$T(n)={12n-6}$$
$$T(n) is O(n)$$


** ************************ **

$$IntegerToBinary-Analysis$$

Helper analysis
''''cpp

//analysis with respect to len
//len is array length and the T(len) is number of operations for concatinating arrays a1 and a2 for len
int* concat(int* a1, int* a2, int len)
{

    if (len == 0)//1
    {
        a1[0] = 0;//2
        return a1;//1
    }//total, 4 operations
    else
    {
        a1 = concat(a1, a2, int(len - 1));//1+T(len-1)
        a1[len] = a2[len - 1];//4
        return a1;//1
    }//total, 6+T(len-1)

    //pattern :
    /*T(0)=4
     *T(1)=6+T(0)=6+4=10
     *T(2)=6+T(1)=6+6+T(0)=12+4=16
     *....
     *T(len)=6+T(len-1)
     *from above 6 repeats len times
     *Thus, T(len)=6*len +T(0)
     *T(len)=6len+4
     *Thus,
     *T(len) is O(len)
     */
    
}

''''
Result, for helper, $T(len) is O(len)$

Main function $analysis$

**n whose binary value is to be found. $T(n)$ = number of operations required to find an array with
binary digits representing n**

''''cpp

int* IntegerToBinary(int n) {

    if (n == 1)//1
    {
        int* arr = new int[n];//4
        arr[n - 1] = 1;//3
        return arr;//1
    }//total, 9
    else
    {
        int* a2 = IntegerToBinary(n / 2);//2+T(n-1)
        int len = int(floor(log2(n)));//4
        int* arr = new int[len + 1];//4
        //*****FROM HELPER ANALYSIS*****
        concat(arr, a2, (len));//O(len) = O(floor(log2(n))) because len = floor(log2(n))
        arr[0] = n % 2;//3
        return arr;//1
    }total, 14+T(n-1)+O(log2(n))
}

''''

initially we ignore O(len)=O(floor(log2(n));
because: 
floor(log2(n)) is a constant when calculated 
so,
O(floor(log2(n))) can be ignore to make calculation simple, though it will be added later

Working:
$$T(1)=9$$
$$T(2)={14 + T(1)}={23}$$
$$T(3)= {14 + T(2)}+{14 +14+ T(1)}={37}$$
$$....$$
$$T(n)=14+T(n-1)+O(len);
Note: from above we have the pattern: **14 repeats n-1 times**
Thus,$T(n)= 14(n-1)+T(1)$
$$T(n)=14n-14+9$$
$$T(n)=14n-5$$
$$Thus, T(n) is O(n)$$

**BUT!!!**
This is without considering T(len)=O(len)
the overal run time or cumulated runtime will be:
$$T(n)*T(len)$$
$$T(n)*T(floor(log2(n)))$$
Thus we can assume that the run time for the whole Integer to binary function is: $$O(nlog n)$$

** ************************************* **
# Part 6 (team member: ARHAAM KHAN)
The assignment helped understand how to do successful inserts, erase and search on linked list. We got to learn how to perform the sort-function on a linked list without moving the data around. In the recursive implementation we learnt how to implement functions like fibArray and integerToBinary using recursive techniques instead of using loops where loops seem to be the easiest approach.
 Finding effective solutions which were efficient was a challenge. Another challenge was to overcome memory corruption in the recursive methods. There was an issue with segmentation faults when we tried to allocate and deallocate an array. As a result, the recursivemethods.cpp was not able to pass testing past test 8 for IntegertoBinary, there was a heap memory corruption. Finally, the assignment was fun and was a good experience that might help us in future.


# Part 6 (team member: Negar Khalilazar)
In this assignment, we learnt how to visualise the operations such as insert, erase, sort, deep copy, shallow copy, etc with the help of diagrams. The sort function helped us have a better understanding on how swap functions are critical in sorting of linked lists. Moreover, it showed that linked lists cannot be treated as casually as it is the case with arrays and as a result, binary sort came in effective. A challenge was that we had to deal with heap memory corruption with the recursive methods; allocation and deallocation processes had to be studied carefully in order to resolve it. Overall, the assignment improved critical thinking to implement efficient algorithms.
